In the last video, we talked about
the hypothesis representation for
logistic regression.
What Id like to do now is tell you about
something called the decision boundary,
and this will give us a better sense
of what the logistic regressions
hypothesis function is computing.
To recap, this is what we wrote
out last time, where we said that
the hypothesis is represented as h
of x equals g of theta transpose x,
where g is this function called the
sigmoid function, which looks like this.
It slowly increases from zero to one,
asymptoting at one.
What I want to do now is
try to understand better
when this hypothesis will
make predictions that y
is equal to 1 versus when it might
make predictions that y is equal to 0.
And understand better what
hypothesis function looks like
particularly when we have
more than one feature.
Concretely, this hypothesis
is outputting estimates
of the probability that y is equal to one,
given x and parameterized by theta.
So if we wanted to predict
is y equal to one or
is y equal to zero,
here's something we might do.
Whenever the hypothesis outputs
that the probability of y being one
is greater than or equal to 0.5, so
this means that if there is more likely to
be y equals 1 than y equals 0,
then let's predict y equals 1.
And otherwise, if the probability,
the estimated probability of y being
over 1 is less than 0.5,
then let's predict y equals 0.
And I chose a greater than or
equal to here and less than here If
h of x is equal to 0.5 exactly, then
you could predict positive or negative,
but I probably created a loophole here, so
we default maybe to predicting positive
if h of x is 0.5, but that's a detail
that really doesn't matter that much.
What I want to do is understand better
when is it exactly that h of x will
be greater than or equal to 0.5, so that
we'll end up predicting y is equal to 1.
If we look at this plot
of the sigmoid function,
we'll notice that the sigmoid function,
g of z is greater than or
equal to 0.5 whenever z is greater than or
equal to zero.
So is in this half of the figure that g
takes on values that are 0.5 and higher.
This notch here, that's 0.5, and
so when z is positive, g of z,
the sigmoid function is greater than or
equal to 0.5.
Since the hypothesis for logistic
regression is h of x equals g of theta and
transpose x, this is therefore going
to be greater than or equal to 0.5,
whenever theta transpose x is
greater than or equal to 0.
So what we're shown, right, because here
theta transpose x takes the role of z.
So what we're shown is that a hypothesis
is gonna predict y equals 1
whenever theta transpose x is
greater than or equal to 0.
Let's now consider the other case of when
a hypothesis will predict y is equal to 0.
Well, by similar argument,
h(x) is going to be less than 0.5
whenever g(z) is less than 0.5
because the range of values of z
that cause g(z) to take on values less
than 0.5, well, that's when z is negative.
So when g(z) is less than 0.5,
a hypothesis will predict
that y is equal to 0.
And by similar argument
to what we had earlier,
h(x) is equal to g of
theta transpose x and
so we'll predict y equals 0 whenever this
quantity theta transpose x is less than 0.
To summarize what we just worked out, we
saw that if we decide to predict whether
y=1 or y=0 depending on whether the
estimated probability is greater than or
equal to 0.5, or whether less than 0.5,
then that's the same as saying that
when we predict y=1 whenever theta
transpose x is greater than or equal to 0.
And we'll predict y is equal to 0 whenever
theta transpose x is less than 0.
Let's use this to better understand
how the hypothesis of logistic
regression makes those predictions.
Now, let's suppose we have a training
set like that shown on the slide.
And suppose a hypothesis is
h of x equals g of theta zero plus
theta one x one plus theta two x two.
We haven't talked yet about how to
fit the parameters of this model.
We'll talk about that in the next video.
But suppose that via
a procedure to specified.
We end up choosing the following
values for the parameters.
Let's say we choose theta 0 equals 3,
theta 1 equals 1, theta 2 equals 1.
So this means that my parameter
vector is going to be theta
equals minus 3, 1, 1.
So, when given this choice
of my hypothesis parameters,
let's try to figure out where a hypothesis
would end up predicting y equals one and
where it would end up
predicting y equals zero.
Using the formulas that we were
taught on the previous slide,
we know that y equals one is more likely,
that is the probability that y
equals one is greater than or
equal to 0.5,
whenever theta transpose
x is greater than zero.
And this formula that I just underlined,
-3 + x1 + x2,
is, of course,
theta transpose x when theta
is equal to this value of
the parameters that we just chose.
So for any example, for
any example which features x1 and
x2 that satisfy this equation,
that minus 3 plus x1 plus x2 is
greater than or equal to 0, our
hypothesis will think that y equals 1, the
small x will predict that y is equal to 1.
We can also take -3 and
bring this to the right and
rewrite this as x1+x2 is greater than or
equal to 3, so
equivalently, we found that
this hypothesis would predict
y=1 whenever x1+x2 is greater than or
equal to 3.
Let's see what that means on the figure,
if I write down the equation,
X1 + X2 = 3, this defines
the equation of a straight line and
if I draw what that straight line looks
like, it gives me the following line
which passes through 3 and
3 on the x1 and the x2 axis.
So the part of the infospace,
the part of the X1 X2
plane that corresponds to when X1 plus
X2 is greater than or equal to 3,
that's going to be this right half thing,
that is everything to the up and
everything to the upper right portion
of this magenta line that I just drew.
And so, the region where our hypothesis
will predict y = 1, is this region,
just really this huge region,
this half space over to the upper right.
And let me just write that down,
I'm gonna call this the y = 1 region.
And, in contrast,
the region where x1 + x2 is less than 3,
that's when we will predict
that y is equal to 0.
And that corresponds to this region.
And there's really a half plane, but
that region on the left is the region
where our hypothesis will predict y = 0.
I wanna give this line,
this magenta line that I drew a name.
This line, there,
is called the decision boundary.
And concretely, this straight line,
X1 plus X equals 3.
That corresponds to the set of points, so
that corresponds to the region where H of
X is equal to 0.5 exactly and the decision
boundary that is this straight line,
that's the line that separates the region
where the hypothesis predicts Y equals 1
from the region where the hypothesis
predicts that y is equal to zero.
And just to be clear, the decision
boundary is a property of the hypothesis
including the parameters theta zero,
theta one, theta two.
And in the figure I drew a training set,
I drew a data set,
in order to help the visualization.
But even if we take away the data set
this decision boundary and the region
where we predict y =1 versus y = 0,
that's a property of the hypothesis and
of the parameters of the hypothesis and
not a property of the data set.
Later on, of course, we'll talk
about how to fit the parameters and
there we'll end up using the training set,
using our data.
To determine the value of the parameters.
But once we have particular values for
the parameters theta0, theta1,
theta2 then that completely defines
the decision boundary and we
don't actually need to plot a training set
in order to plot the decision boundary.
Let's now look at a more complex
example where as usual, I have
crosses to denote my positive examples and
Os to denote my negative examples.
Given a training set like this,
how can I get logistic regression
to fit the sort of data?
Earlier when we were talking
about polynomial regression or
when we're talking about linear
regression, we talked about how we could
add extra higher order polynomial
terms to the features.
And we can do the same for
logistic regression.
Concretely, let's say my hypothesis
looks like this where I've
added two extra features, x1 squared and
x2 squared, to my features.
So that I now have five parameters,
theta zero through theta four.
As before, we'll defer to the next video,
our discussion on
how to automatically choose values for the
parameters theta zero through theta four.
But let's say that varied
procedure to be specified,
I end up choosing theta zero equals
minus one, theta one equals zero,
theta two equals zero, theta three
equals one and theta four equals one.
What this means is that with this
particular choose of parameters,
my parameter effect theta theta looks
like minus one, zero, zero, one, one.
Following our earlier discussion, this
means that my hypothesis will predict that
y=1 whenever -1 + x1 squared + x2
squared is greater than or equal to 0.
This is whenever theta transpose
times my theta transfers,
my features is greater than or
equal to zero.
And if I take minus 1 and
just bring this to the right,
I'm saying that my hypothesis will
predict that y is equal to 1 whenever x1
squared plus x2 squared is greater than or
equal to 1.
So what does this decision
boundary look like?
Well, if you were to plot the curve for
x1 squared plus x2 squared
equals 1 Some of you will recognize that,
that is the equation for
circle of radius one,
centered around the origin.
So that is my decision boundary.
And everything outside the circle,
I'm going to predict as y=1.
So out here is my y equals 1 region,
we'll predict y equals 1 out here and
inside the circle is where
I'll predict y is equal to 0.
So by adding these more complex, or these
polynomial terms to my features as well,
I can get more complex decision
boundaries that don't just
try to separate the positive and
negative examples in a straight line
that I can get in this example,
a decision boundary that's a circle.
Once again, the decision boundary is
a property, not of the trading set, but
of the hypothesis under the parameters.
So, so long as we're given
my parameter vector theta,
that defines the decision boundary,
which is the circle.
But the training set is not what we
use to define the decision boundary.
The training set may be used
to fit the parameters theta.
We'll talk about how to do that later.
But, once you have the parameters theta,
that is what defines
the decisions boundary.
Let me put back the training set just for
visualization.
And finally let's look at
a more complex example.
So can we come up with even more
complex decision boundaries then this?
If I have even higher polynomial terms so
things like
X1 squared, X1 squared X2,
X1 squared equals squared and so on.
And have much higher polynomials,
then it's possible to show that you can
get even more complex decision
boundaries and the regression can be
used to find decision boundaries that may,
for example, be an ellipse like that or
maybe a little bit different setting of
the parameters maybe you can get instead
a different decision boundary which may
even look like some funny shape like that.
Or for even more complete examples
maybe you can also get this decision
boundaries that could look like more
complex shapes like that where everything
in here you predict y = 1 and
everything outside you predict y = 0.
So this higher autopolynomial features you
can a very complex decision boundaries.
So, with these visualizations, I hope that
gives you a sense of what's the range of
hypothesis functions we can represent
using the representation that we have for
logistic regression.
Now that we know what h(x) can represent,
what I'd like to do next in the following
video is talk about how to automatically
choose the parameters theta so that
given a training set we can automatically
fit the parameters to our data.